RECORD #185795
426695091 | RMICGH | 21526569 | | 525973 | 4/14/1999 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/16/1999 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 10/20/1999
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: 1. Stroke.
SECONDARY DIAGNOSIS: 2. Coronary artery disease.
3. Hypertension. 4. Hypercholesterolemia.
5. Type II diabetes mellitus. 6. Gastroesophageal reflux
disease.
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURES AND OPERATIONS: The patient had a head MRI ,
an echocardiogram , and head
CT scan.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This 61-year-old male was in his usual
state of health until the morning of
admission when he woke up with speech difficulty noticed by his
wife. The patient was noted to make paraphasic errors. In
addition , there was a question of a right facial droop. The
patient presented to the emergency room. There were no other
neurologic symptoms.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Physical examination on admission revealed
pulse 78 , temperature 98.8 , and blood
pressure 160/78. The patient was in no apparent distress. The
head and neck examination was unremarkable. The neck was supple.
The thyroid gland was not enlarged. The lungs were clear. There
was a normal S1 and S2 , with no murmurs , gallops or rubs. The
abdomen was soft and non-tender. There was no peripheral edema.
The patient was alert and oriented to his name and to place. The
patient had difficulty giving the exact date and month. The
patient was unable to register three objects properly. The
patient's speech was non-fluent with impaired naming. Repetition
was also affected. There was right left confusion , severe
acalculia , as well as poor reading and writing. The patient had no
neglect or apraxia. The patient was able to copy a complicated
figure without problems. The cranial nerves were intact , except
for a mild right upper motor neuron facial palsy. There was no
pronator drift and the strength was 5/5 in all four extremities.
Sensation was intact to primal modalities. The reflexes were 2+
and symmetric with downgoing toes. The patient had normal gait.
LABORATORY DATA: Laboratory data on admission revealed serum
electrolytes to be normal , except for a potassium
of 5.3. The glucose was 168. The white count was 7.8 , hematocrit
38.8 , and platelets 223. A PT and PTT were normal. A head CT scan
showed a subtle hyperdensity in the left frontal region. This was
later confirmed by MRI. The patient had carotid ultrasounds , which
showed a 60% stenosis of the left internal carotid artery. The
right internal carotid was stenosed to 25%.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the hospital with a
diagnosis of probable embolic stroke. An MRI
showed a wedge shaped frontal lobe infarct. Clinically , the
patient's speech improved and he regained fluency within the next
24 hours. The patient's naming was relatively preserved.
Comprehension was intact for simple commands. However , the patient
continued to have right left indiscrimination , acalculia , as well
as a defect in reading and writing. The patient was initially
unable to add two plus two , but by the end of the hospitalization ,
he was able to add nine plus six. However , the patient's
calculation never returned to his baseline function. The patient
had an echocardiogram , which revealed an ejection fraction of 60% ,
with no significant valvular disease. There was no thrombus noted
in the left atrium. The patient was started on intravenous Heparin
on admission , and was then converted to oral Coumadin. The patient
ruled out for myocardial infarction on admission. The patient was
kept on a cardiac monitor with no cardiac events noted. The
patient was seen by the Neurobehavioral Service because of his
aphasia.
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: At the time of discharge , the patient
was on Allopurinol , Atenolol ,
Colchicine , Prilosec , Lipitor , and Coumadin. FOLLOW-UP: The
patient was instructed to follow-up with Dr. Glaser of the
Neurology Service at Cloud Medical Center .
Dictated By: FAUSTINO ENNEN , M.D. OX08
Attending: RALPH A. MICHIENZI , M.D. AX56
BZ547/2315
Batch: 58843 Index No. ZQWTXR8V50 D: 8/27/99
T: 5/30/99
CC: 1. ISRAEL T. DEVOS , M.D. BK3
UZ5
[report_end]
