RECORD #853665
889331222 | COH | 70201597 | | 816283 | 10/1/2001 12:00:00 AM | FAILED BYPASS GRAFT | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/29/2001 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 7/4/2001
PROCEDURE: Left lower extremity revascularization.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 63 year old male with a
history of peripheral vascular disease
status post a left femoral to peroneal bypass graft on 5/21/01 for
left lower extremity rest pain. He presents with eleven days of
left lower extremity swelling. Over the prior eight days the
patient noticed pain and pinkish discoloration of the left foot.
The patient also noticed occasional left foot coldness which was
relieved with dependent positioning.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Peripheral vascular disease. Hypertension.
Diabetes mellitus. Aortic stenosis.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Left femoral to peroneal bypass in August of
2001. Right femoral to peroneal bypass in
July of 1999. Right fifth toe amputation in July of 1999. Multiple
wrist surgeries , including a failed left wrist fusion.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
MEDICATIONS: He is on outpatient medications of Lopressor 25 mg
p.o. b.i.d. , Hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg p.o. q.d. ,
Glipizide 10 mg q.a.m. and 5 mg q.p.m. , Simvastatin 10 mg p.o. qhs ,
Amlodipine 5 mg p.o. q.d. , aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , Colace 100 mg
p.o. b.i.d. , and p.r.n. Percocet.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted on 1/16/01 for presumed
failed left femoral to peroneal bypass graft.
The patient was preopped for revision of his bypass graft and , on
4/19/01 , the patient was taken to the operating room for a femoral
to posterior tibial bypass graft. The patient tolerated the
procedure well but immediately postoperatively the patient was
noted to have non-Dopplerable signals in his left foot. The
patient was brought back to the operating room at which time the
significant sized clot was found in the distal anastomosis of the
graft which was removed. Again , the patient was returned to the
recovery room and , in the ensuing hours , the patient again lost all
Dopplerable signals in his left foot. On postoperative day #1 the
patient returned one more time to the operating room for revision
of his left bypass graft. The patient tolerated the procedure well
and had strong Dopplerable dorsalis pedis pulse and posterior
tibial pulse throughout the remainder of his hospital stay. The
patient was kept on perioperative Ancef antibiotics.
On postoperative day #0 the patient was found to be in respiratory
distress. Chest x-ray revealed flash pulmonary edema. Cardiology
consult was obtained at that time and an echocardiogram revealed an
ejection fraction of 35 percent with moderate aortic stenosis and
regurgitation. The patient ruled in by enzymes for a myocardial
infarction. The patient was kept on beta blocker for goal heart
rate less than 75 and was started on Digoxin. Cardiology also
recommended the addition of an Ace inhibitor for further blood
pressure control. The patient remained stable. He remained in the
Surgical Intensive Care Unit for the first three days
postoperatively at which time the patient was medically stable and
transferred to a surgical floor and monitored bed. Repeat
echocardiogram on postoperative day #4 and #3 was unchanged from
his prior echocardiogram , again , revealing an ejection fraction of
35 percent with global hypokinesis , severe aortic stenosis , and
moderate aortic regurgitation. Cardiology continued to follow the
patient throughout his hospital stay. They recommended the patient
return for cardiac catheterization following a short stay in acute
rehabilitation. Otherwise the patient progressed well. He did
develop a small amount of erythema in his left lower extremity
incision site. He was restarted on antibiotics and the erythema
slowly regressed over the ensuing three days. Otherwise the
patient's incisions to his right arm , left leg , and right leg all
were clean , dry , and intact with staples.
Physical therapy consult was obtained and the patient was able to
ambulate with the assistance of a walker. The patient continued to
progress well. He tolerated a regular diet and ambulated and
voided without difficulty. On postoperative days #9 and #8 , the
patient was accepted to acute rehabilitation at which time he was
transferred. The patient is in stable condition.
DISPOSITION: LEVEL OF ACTIVITY: He should continue working with
physical therapy to increase his mobility. DIET: He
has no restrictons of diet. Please keep his left lower extremity
elevated when he is resting in bed or in chair. Please call
Abed General Hospital if he experiences fevers , chills , or
redness or discharge from the surgical site. FOLLOWUP: The
patient is to follow-up with Dr. Koss in the vascular clinic.
Please call Cing Medical Center vascular clinic to arrange
for an appointment. DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: He is discharged on
enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , Captopril 25 mg p.o.
t.i.d. , Digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q.d. , Glipizide 10 mg p.o. q.a.m. and
5 mg p.o. q.p.m. , Hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg p.o. q.d. , Motrin 600
mg p.o. q6h p.r.n. pain , Lopressor 50 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Percocet 1 to
2 tablets p.o. q3 - 4h p.r.n. pain , Zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
Simvastatin 10 mg p.o. qhs , Oxycontin 40 mg p.o. q12h , Keflex 500
mg p.o. q.i.d. for three additional days.
Dictated By: ABDUL LILLA , M.D. HC07
Attending: ROMEO H. BRAVERMAN , M.D. QM26
KP941/2908
Batch: 3305 Index No. SCORBL3UG6 D: 0/0/01
T: 0/0/01
[report_end]
