RECORD #99703


406796482 | VLPNCH | 38892684 | | 318907 | 0/11/1991 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 4/5/1991 Report Status: Unsigned

Discharge Date: 3/12/1991
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Patient is a 35 year old black female ,
gravida I , para l , last menstrual
period 9/18/9l with a chief complaint of menorrhagia and a large
fibroid uterus. Patient had a history of chronic pelvic pain for
the past three years with lower back pain. She has had a history
of known fibroids and at the time of this surgery , was requesting
definitive surgery. She has a history of a heart murmur , was seen
by Cardiology in 9/2 , and cleared with a normal echocardiogram
and no need for SBE prophylaxis. Her EKG was within normal limits
except for sinus tachycardia. The patient is status post a
cesarean section. Other medical problems include that she has
recently diagnosed diabetes and takes Glyburide 5 mg p.o. q.d.
ALLERGIES: She has no allergies.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Her heart rate was 96 , her respiratory rate
was l2 , blood pressure ll0/70 , and
temperature was 98.9. She was an obese black female in no acute
distress. HEENT: Negative. BREASTS: Clear without masses.
LUNGS: Clear. HEART: Regular rate and rhythm with a I/VI
systolic ejection murmur. ABDOMEN: Soft and non-tender with a
previous midline vertical incision secondary to her previous
cesarean section. PELVIC: She had a fourteen to sixteen week size
fibroid uterus and her adnexa were unable to be evaluated.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: Patient had a pre-operative hematocrit of
35.3. Her height was five foot two and
she was l80 pounds.
HOSPITAL COURSE: Patient was taken to the Operating Room on
3/8/9l with a pre-operative diagnosis of
fibroid uterus , pelvic pain , and menorrhagia. Post-operative
diagnosis was same. In addition , there were extensive pelvic
adhesions. Procedure was exploratory laparotomy , lysis of
adhesions , total abdominal hysterectomy , and left
salpingo-oophorectomy. Surgeon was Dr. Vito Hazouri and assistant
was Dr. Gaylord Rollf . Anesthesia was general per endotracheal
tube. Estimated blood loss was 500 cc. There were no
complications. Operative findings included the uterus to be
enlarged at approximately twelve to fourteen weeks in size and
slightly boggy. Both ovaries and tubes were densely adherent to
her pelvic sidewalls and the cul-de-sac. She had adhesions of the
cul-de-sac and rectosigmoid to the posterior portion of the uterus.
She also had omental adhesions to the anterior abdominal wall in
the upper abdomen. Patient's Pathology Report revealed , of the
uterus , leiomyomata with multiple serosal adhesions with
proliferative endometrium and adenomyosis. The left tube revealed
endometriosis and left ovary hemorrhagic corpus luteum. Her cervix
was noted to have mucinous mucus cyst. Patient had a stable
post-operative course. On post-operative day one , her Foley was
discontinued. She was started on sips of clears and had a low
grade temperature to l00.6. Her hematocrit was 30.4 with a white
count of ll.l and a platelet count of 336. Her urinalysis was
clear. On post-operative day three , she was advanced to a regular
diet. She had a low grade temperature to l00 and was continued on
nebulizers. It was felt her low grade temperature was secondary to
atelectasis. Her urine culture was negative. She had one episode
of vomiting on post-operative day four which was felt to be
secondary to a mild ileus. She had a KUB obtained which was
contained with a post-operative ileus with no dilated loops and few
air fluid levels. On post-operative day five , she was feeling
better. On post-operative day six , she was placed on clears and
was then advanced to a regular diet on post-operative day six. She
is discharged home on post-operative day seven in stable condition
tolerating a regular diet after having had a bowel movement.
DISPOSITION: She will follow-up with Dr. Melvin Highers at VMC . 
LN711/2242
DAREN R. BRANIGAN , III , M.D NW64 D: 4/11/91
Batch: 2364 Report: W7697S5 T: 4/18/91
Dictated By: ROYAL R. DENNIN , M.D. LA44
[report_end]
