RECORD #155926
740149689 | GMH | 94560560 | | 356656 | 10/17/1992 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/18/1992 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 9/19/1992
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: 1. CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES: 2. HYPETENSION
3. DYSPEPSIA
4. ADJUSTMENT DISORDER WITH ANXIETY
ID/CHIEF COMPLAINT: The patient is a 70 year old white female
status post non Q wave MI in 28 of May , with
thrombolytic therapy and cardiac risk factors of long standing
hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , and history of tobacco use , who
presents upon transfer from Ra Memorial Hospital with chief
complaint of post MI unstable angina.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient has the history of
long standing hypertension and has had
chest pain in the past including at least one previous episode of
rule out MI. She was admitted on 22 of April , to Hen Mo Gardensworth Sent Hospital with
signs and symptoms consistent with acute MI , and apparently
received salvage therapy with IV Streptokinase and TPA. Limited
records are available from this hospitalization. The patient
apparently had a submax exercise tolerance test before discharge
which is reportedly unremarkable. Upon discharge from Woodgi Hospital the patient additionally did well and then had three
episodes of typical substernal chest pain with minimal exertion
that were relieved with SL Nitroglycerin.
On 0 of August , the patient presented to Cooker View Home Hospital with an
episode of heavy substernal chest pressure that was similar in
quality to her previous MI. This pain was not relieved with SL
Nitroglycerin. There was no associated shortness of breath ,
nausea , vomiting or diaphoresis. In the Ist Medical Center ER , she was
treated with SL and topical nitrates with subsequent relief of her
chest pain. Her presentation was also significant for a chest
x-ray consistent with interstitial edema. Otherwise , her
examination was unremarkable and her EKG showed no worrisome
ischemic changes. She ruled out for MI and on 0 of February , was
transferred to CNMC on IV Heparin , IV Nitroglycerin , beta blockade
and aspirin. At the time of her admission , the patient was without
chest pain and denied other associated symptoms.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Coronary artery disease status post MI in
28 of May , as above; long standing hypertension ,
75 pack year history of cigarette smoking , hypercholesterolemia ,
chronic dyspepsia , history of positive PPD with normal chest x-ray ,
remote history of breast cancer. PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Status
post cholecystectomy , status post appendectomy , status post renal
stone removal , status post C. section x 3 , status post breast
lumpectomy. MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER: IV Nitroglycerin at 140
micrograms per minute , IV Heparin drip , Lopressor , aspirin one a
day. ALLERGIES: Penicillin which causes anaphylaxis. FAMILY
HISTORY: Negative for premature cardiac disease , negative for
diabetes mellitus. SOCIAL HISTORY: Most significant for her
husband's recent diagnosis of GI malignancy which will require
inpatient admission at ORMC and the recent death of a brother-in-law
at GH .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient is an obese white female in no
apparent distress , pleasant and cooperative.
The vital signs were temp 97.8 , pulse 48 , BP 140/60 , respirations
16 with O2 sat of 95% on O2 2 liters per minute. HEENT exam was
unremarkable. There were normal carotid upstrokes without bruit.
The chest exam showed bibasilar rales right greater than left but
otherwise the lungs were clear to auscultation , no wheezing. CV
exam showed a regular rate and rhythm with distant heart sounds ,
normal S1 and S2 , question of S4 , no appreciable murmurs. The
abdomen was obese , soft with normoactive bowel sounds. There were
previous surgical scars. No masses or hepatosplenomegaly was
noted. There were normal femoral and distal pulses , no peripheral
edema , no peripheral bruits. Neuro exam was unremarkable.
LABORATORY DATA: The admission labs showed hematocrit 34.2 , WBC
6.7 , platelets 159 , 000 , PTT 50.0 on IV Heparin.
Urinalysis was essentially within normal limits. Glucose was 110 ,
BUN 12 , creatinine 1.0 , sodium 142 , potassium 4.0 , chloride 106 and
bicarb 29. LFT's were all within normal limits. Admission CK was
32 , albumin 3.9 , magnesium 2.0 , uric acid 6.2 , cholesterol 186. The
chest x-ray was unavailable. EKG showed sinus bradycardia at a
rate of 50 , first degree AV block axis +60 , ST elevation in leads
V2-V4 , poor R wave progression leads V1-V3.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient did well over the first 24 hours of
admission. On 16 of June , the patient went to cardiac
cath. Angiogram showed 50% mid circumflex , 60% mid left anterior
descending and only luminal irregularities in the right RCA ,
anterior wall hypokinesis but overall good LV systolic function
with an EF of approximately 72%. Average pulmonary capillary wedge
pressure was 20 and right atrial pressure 9. Cardiac output was
4.5 with cardiac index of 2.5. Careful review of the cath films
showed no hemodynamically significant lesions felt to be
responsible for the patient's chest pain. Echo performed on
8 of August , showed left ventricular hypertrophy with low normal LV
systolic function , estimated EF of 50-55% , inferior posterior
hypokinesis , and trace of tricuspid and mitral regurgitation. There
was mild right ventricular hypertrophy and normal estimated
pulmonary artery pressure.
Postcatheterization , the patient showed mild hypertension which was
treated by the addition of a calcium channel blocker , and she was
also diuresed for fluid overload. Prior to discharge , she had two
additional episodes of chest pain that were low in intensity but
prolonged. Each of these required several Nitroglycerins and
antacids to be relieved. It was felt that the chest pain was
unlikely to be cardiac in origin and more likely represented either
GI symptomatology or an anxiety reaction. The patient repeatedly
expressed great concern over her husband's illness and understood
the possible connection between this and her chest pain. On 13 of August ,
the patient underwent exercise treadmill test on the modified Bruce
protocol. She went 10 minutes and 30 seconds stopping secondary to
fatigue. Maximum heart rate was 108 , maximum BP 164 systolic , no
symptoms and no EKG changes , and the test was interpreted as
showing no evidence for ischemia. The patient was discharged to
home and is to follow up at AMC .
COMPLICATIONS: None. MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: Nifedipine XL 90
mg po q am , Lopressor 50 mg po b.i.d. , Zantac 150 mg po q hs ,
aspirin 81 mg po q d , Serax 15 mg po q 6 h or q hs prn ,
Nitroglycerin 1/150 grain q 5 minutes x 3 SL prn chest pain.
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Good. FOLLOW UP CARE: With her primary
care physician , Dr. Gayle Demeritt , and her cardiologist , Dr. Mark Willians , at ACSH .
ZR634/9372
LESLIE F. BUZIS , M.D. IK5 D: 6/19/92
Batch: 8454 Report: A0568G63 T: 9/1/92
Dictated By: IAN WALER , M.D.
cc: 1. RICARDO R. HEALD , M.D.
2. FREDDIE L. ZIPPERER , M.D.
[report_end]
