RECORD #165885
315661630 | BUMC | 94980326 | | 619742 | 6/13/1994 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 4/8/1994 Report Status: Unsigned
Discharge Date: 10/20/1994
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: COLON CANCER STATUS POST SIGMOID COLECTOMY
WITH A PRIMARY ANASTOMOSIS.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Patient is a 73 year old male who
immigrated from Co Garlpaaran approximately
fifteen years ago. He has had a several year history of
constipation but no melena , hematochezia , weight loss , night
sweats , chills , abdominal pain , or change in size/caliber of stool.
His daughters were concerned about the long history of constipation
and therefore scheduled a colonoscopy. On 8/18/94 , the patient
underwent a colonoscopy at Talchip Harb Community Hospital and a mass was
noted in the transverse colon. A biopsy was taken and the results
are not known but were reported to Dr. Jorski as colon cancer.
CT of the abdomen on 2/18/94 revealed no adenopathy or evidence of
metastasis but an infrarenal IVC dilatation of approximately 3 cm.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Non-Insulin dependent diabetes times ten
years , coronary artery disease with a history of coronary artery
bypass graft in 1990 , hypercholesterolemia , and low back pain.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Significant for an appendectomy as a young
man and a coronary artery bypass graft times three vessels in 1990.
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Glyburide 2.5 mg q.d. and Lovastatin 20 mg
q.d. ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Blood pressure was 104/64 , temperature 97.6 ,
and pulse 54. GENERAL: Cooperative
gentleman , well-nourished , well-developed , and in no acute
distress. HEENT: Within normal limits. LUNGS: Clear to
auscultation bilaterally. HEART: Regular rhythm and rate with no
murmurs , gallops , or rubs with a midline scar from sternotomy.
ABDOMEN: Soft , non-tender , non-distended , positive bowel sounds ,
liver , spleen , and kidney non-palpable , and no masses palpable.
RECTAL: Guaiac negative with normal tone and prostate was smooth
and not enlarged. EXTREMITIES: No cyanosis , clubbing , or edema.
PULSES: Slightly decreased in the left posterior tibial and
dorsalis pedis as compared to the right but present.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: EKG showed normal sinus rhythm with no
ischemia or infarct.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted and pre-operatively , was
seen by a Cardiology consultant who cleared the
patient for surgery and recommended following serial CK , MB , and
EKG but not a formal rule out protocol. The patient was taken to
the Operating Room on 9/29/94 where he underwent a mid transverse
to mid descending colectomy and primary anastomosis. The patient
tolerated the procedure well and was stable post-operatively.
Patient continued to progress well without any difficulty and had
no evidence of ischemia or changes on the EKG. On post-operative
day number three , the patient developed a productive cough and
chest X-Ray was obtained which showed only atelectasis and small
bilateral effusions but no consolidation or infiltrate. Patient
was encouraged to cough and deep breath and the productive cough
resolved without any antibiotic treatment. The nasogastric tube
was discontinued on post-operative day number five and the patient
began tolerating clear sips without any difficulty. By
post-operative day number six , the patient was on a regular diet
and had a bowel movement times six. Patient was discharged on
post-operative day number seven without any complications.
DISPOSITION: DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Glyburide 2.5 mg q.d. ,
Lovastatin 20 mg q.d. , Aspirin one q.d. , Colace 100
mg b.i.d. , Axid 150 mg b.i.d. , Percocet one to two q.4-6h. p.r.n.
pain. The disposition on discharge is no heavy lifting times six
weeks and the patient is to follow-up with Dr. Philbeck in seven to
eight days for staple removal from his wound. Pathology was
adenocarcinoma of the colon 4 cm in size , clear margins , and ten
out of ten nodes were negative. It was Duke's class B2. Patient
is discharged home in stable condition.
Dictated By: ROLAND R. NETO , M.D. JJ16
Attending: DENNIS O. STROHSCHEIN , M.D. CU6
OO431/5833
Batch: 1585 Index No. IFVT3692B6 D: 5/9/94
T: 4/26/94
[report_end]
