RECORD #174046
765192522 | SFH | 79392868 | | 2175092 | 5/17/2002 12:00:00 AM | LOWER GASTROINTESTINAL BLEED | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/20/2002 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 6/13/2002
PRINCIPLE DIAGNOSIS: LOWER GASTROINTESTINAL BLEED.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 75-year-old male with
a history of coronary artery disease
status post five catheterization with a pacemaker in place ,
arthritis , gout , benign prostatic hypertrophy , hypertension and
myelodysplasia who presents with a history of lower
gastrointestinal bleeds. He has had three episodes in the past.
He presented to an outside hospital four days prior to admission
with symptoms of bright red blood per rectum. His vital signs at
that time were normal and stable with a hematocrit of 33. A tagged
red blood cell scan was negative during that hospitalization as was
an upper endoscopy. Colonoscopy revealed diverticula throughout
the large colon with more on the right than on the left. During
that hospitalization at the outside hospital , he was transfused
with four units of packed red blood cells and then transferred to
the Siter Calvty Valley Hospital for further evaluation and
treatment.
HOSPITAL COURSE: On admission , his hematocrit was 32.9.
Subsequent serial hematocrits over the following
two days were stable. During the first hospital day , he had two
grossly heme-positive bowel movements and , by the second hospital
day , he had bowel movements that were brown and formed but guaiac
positive still. His hematocrit remained stable between 30 and 35
throughout his earlier hospitalization.
Given the patient's history of multiple gastrointestinal bleeds ,
the decision was made to perform a right hemicolectomy to prevent
further episodes. This was performed on hospital day number three.
See Operative Note for details.
The procedure and recovery were unremarkable. He was started on
sips on postoperative day number one and clear liquids on
postoperative day number two. He tolerated all of this well. His
Foley catheter was removed on postoperative day number two. His
diet was advanced. On postoperative day number three , he had
passed flatus. He began to have loose bowel movements. His diet
was advanced and , by postoperative day number four , he was
tolerating a regular house diet.
On the day of discharge , the patient was stable and tolerating
p.o.'s quite well. His pain was well controlled with p.o. pain
medication of Percocet and he was voiding freely without
difficulty. He was ambulating successfully. Therefore , it was
deemed that he was suitable for discharge.
The patient was seen by his cardiologist , Dr. Poette throughout his
hospitalization. Prior to surgery , he was deemed suitable for
surgery without any serious cardiac risks. On postoperative day
#2 , the patient was noted to have a run of V-tach 10 beats ,
asymptomatic , no chest pain or discomfort , no shortness of breath.
He said that he was coughing at the time that that tracing came up.
A CK and troponin were sent which were both flat. The patient had
previously been ruled out for MI. Postoperatively , as a
prophylactic course , given that he has a ventricular pacemaker and
we could not follow EKGs based on that. The patient did well
thereafter , and had no further cardiac symptoms or issues. The
patient was seen by physical therapy throughout his postoperative
course and prior to discharge was deemed suitable for discharge to
home , was able to do all necessary activities to go home.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Allopurinol 300 mg p.o. q.d. , atenolol
25 mg p.o. q.d. , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
p.r.n. constipation , Percocet 1-2 tablets p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain ,
Zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Flomax 0.8 mg p.o. q.d.
He will follow up with Dr. Weigold , his hematologist , in 2-4 weeks.
He will follow up with Dr. Condiff on 8/28/02. He was stable at
the time of discharge and is discharged to home with services.
Dictated By: GUILLERMO PICKINGS , M.D. RZ88
Attending: LONNY JURAS , M.D. HU83
GO568/513958
Batch: 62628 Index No. XPBE4L64O2 D: 7/25/02
T: 7/25/02
[report_end]
