RECORD #193011
718689205 | BH | 93957506 | | 668921 | 4/29/1991 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 4/29/1991 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 11/26/1992
DIAGNOSES: STATUS POST CARDIAC TRANSPLANT ON 4 of January
AORTIC DISSECTION.
NON-INSULIN-DEPENDENT DIABETES MELLITUS.
HISTORY OF TOBACCO ABUSE IN THE PAST.
HEPATITIS-C ANTIBODY POSITIVE.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient was a 51 year old
gentleman with a history of coronary
artery disease with myocardial infarction in 1977 , status post
coronary artery bypass grafting in 1977 , and myocardial infarction
in 1985 , with redo coronary artery bypass grafting at Oua Medical Center , complicated by cardiogenic shock , treated with an
intra-aortic balloon pump in 1985. Since 4 of October , the patient
reported recurrent congestive heart failure with chest pain and a
variable bundle branch block requiring pacer placement with a DDD
pacer in 1990. He had an electrophysiologic study at the time ,
which was negative for ventricular tachycardia. In 1 of August , the
patient reported to Hobrook Medical Center with severe congestive heart
failure and was transferred to Mi Hospital after
treatment for transplant evaluation. At Tiesi Hospital Medical Center on 2 of September , the patient's work-up included an exercise
tolerance test with oxygen uptake of 11.1 milliliters per kilogram
per minute , and a cardiac catheterization showing an essentially
open left internal mammary artery with saphenous vein grafts and
occluded native vessels. The right atrial pressure was 10 ,
pulmonary artery pressure 54/28/30 , pulmonary capillary wedge
pressure 36 , cardiac output 3.6 , cardiac index 2 , PVR 44 , SVR 1440.
The echocardiogram revealed severely decreased ejection of around
15% with 2+ mitral regurgitation. Other issues included a positive
tobacco history in the past with a moderately decreased FEV-1 of
2.2 , and also hepatitis-C antibody positivity. The patient went
home after evaluation for 2 weeks and did well without fever or
chills. He did have some constipation. For 2 days , he had some
increased cough when lying down similar to his previous congestive
heart failure. The patient was readmitted on the night prior to
transplantation on 8 of June , for increasing congestive heart
failure and Dobutamine treatment. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY was as
stated above. ALLERGIES were no known drug allergies. SOCIAL
HISTORY revealed a 25-pack-year history of tobacco , none since
1977. He has 4 children , married. MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION on
transfer included digoxin .25 milligrams by mouth each day , Pepcid
20 milligrams by mouth twice a day , captopril 25 milligrams by
mouth 3 times a day , Lasix 80 milligrams by mouth twice a day ,
Ecotrin 1 by mouth each day , Coumadin , Dobutamine drip.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient was a somewhat cachectic male ,
comfortable with oxygen. Head , eyes , ears ,
nose and throat examination was benign. Neck was supple without
adenopathy. Lungs were clear at the tops with bibasilar crackles.
Cardiovascular examination was notable for S1 , S2 and S3 , no S4 ,
murmur or rub. Abdominal examination was benign. Extremities
showed no edema. Rectal examination revealed guaiac negative
stool , no mass.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: At the time of admission , laboratory
values were essentially normal , except for
hyperglycemia , mildly increased liver function tests and creatinine
1.1. On admission , blood urea nitrogen was 18 , creatinine .9 ,
glucose 176 , sodium 137 , potassium 4.1 , prothrombin time 13.1 ,
partial thromboplastin time 29 , calcium 8.5 , albumin 3.7 , magnesium
2 , ALT 17 , alkaline phosphatase 155 , total bilirubin 1.1.
Urinalysis was negative. Hematocrit was 38.8 , platelets 199 , 000 ,
white blood cell count 8.3. The electrocardiogram revealed AV
pacing at 90. Chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly with a pacer with
the wires in the right ventricle. An echocardiogram obtained prior
to transplantation revealed right atrial pressure 10 , pulmonary
artery 54/28/38 , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure 36 , cardiac
output 3.6 , cardiac index 2 , PVR 44 , SVR 1440 , ejection fraction
15% , 2+ mitral regurgitation.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was taken to the operating room on
30 of January , and received an orthotopic heart
transplant. This was complicated by a descending aortic dissection
from the iliac to the left subclavian vein secondary to femoral
catheterization , because the patient had had 2 previous bypasses
and would not have tolerated aortic bypass. The patient did well
postoperatively and was placed on Cyclosporine-A and prednisone.
The patient was weaned off the ventilator and Dobutamine and
diuresed without difficulty. Of note , one of the two preoperative
blood cultures grew out Clostridium perfringens. Three subsequent
blood cultures were negative , however. An Infectious Disease
Service consultation was obtained , and it was felt that intravenous
penicillin for 10 to 14 days , 30 million units every 4 hours , would
be warranted given the patient's underlying immunosuppression. The
patient underwent right ventricular biopsies according to the
protocol , and there was no evidence of rejection on any biopsies.
The patient underwent magnetic resonance imaging evaluation of the
aortic dissection on 24 of March , and then follow-up on 17 of January These
revealed a type-B dissection from the left iliac to the subclavian.
The ascending aorta was not involved. There was flow in both the
true and false lumen on both tests. The renal , SMA and ciliac
arteries were all intact. An echocardiogram on 24 of March , revealed
good left ventricular function , a small amount of mitral
regurgitation , some increased pulmonary pressures and the
dissection of the aorta. The patient underwent abdominal
computerized tomography scan to rule out any occult source of
abscess which would be responsible for the Clostridium bacteremia ,
as recommended by the gastroenterology consultant. No such source
was found. The patient's blood pressure was initially controlled
with Nifedipine 3 times a day 30 milligrams , until the patient
reached the expected postoperative denervated tachycardia. After
this point , a beta blocker in the form of atenolol 25 milligrams by
mouth each day was added to decrease force on the wall of the
dissection. The patient was transferred to the Cardiology Service
from the Cardiothoracic Surgery Service on 24 of March , and did well.
Adjustments were made in his Cyclosporine dose. He was initially
tried on some NPH insulin for hyperglycemia , but eventually with
the prednisone taper had good blood sugars on Glyburide 2.5
milligrams by mouth each day. The goal was set for the patient's
blood pressure to be kept at all times below 140 , and this was for
the most part achieved. The patient was anemic during admission ,
but postoperatively gradually his red blood cell count increased.
He was started on iron sulfate to assist in his hematologic
recovery. B12 and folate levels were normal despite polys on
stain. The patient's chest tube wounds were cultured during the
postoperative course and grew normal skin flora. They were packed
with wicks as necessary. The left groin lymph area drained clear
fluid and persisted , but had decreased substantially prior to
discharge. The patient was evaluated by the Psychiatry Service for
some features of hypomania on 10 of November They recommended Valium 5
milligrams by mouth 3 times a day to counter the steroid-induced
hypomania. Physical Therapy Service was active in the patient's
ambulation and felt comfortable that the patient would be able to
go home and manage on his own.
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to home. COMPLICATIONS
included aortic dissection type B from left iliac to
left subclavian. MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE were Cyclosporine-A 250
milligrams by mouth twice a day , Imuran 50 milligrams by mouth each
day , prednisone 25 milligrams by mouth each day , atenolol 75
milligrams by mouth each day , Glyburide 2.5 milligrams by mouth
each day , Nifedipine 30 milligrams by mouth 4 times a day ,
Septra-Double-Strength 1 by mouth every other day , Nystatin 15 cc
by mouth 4 times a day , iron sulfate 325 milligrams by mouth 3
times a day , Valium 2.5 milligrams by mouth 3 times a day.
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE was stable. The patient was to follow a
low-saturated fat , low-cholesterol , no-added-salt diet. He will
advance his activity as tolerated. The patient was to have a
visiting nurse daily until he feels comfortable with his own care.
The visiting nurse will assist in wound dressing changes , taking
his finger sticks twice a day , taking his blood pressure and
notifying physicians for blood pressure greater than 140. They
were to check differential blood pressures between right and left
arms. The patient will also receive physical therapy assistance to
continue his progress in ambulation. The patient was to FOLLOW-UP
with the Cardiac Transplant Clinic on 24 of September , for routine
FOLLOW-UP.
DX737/3431
STAN O. PUHRMAN , M.D. XP1 D: 10/14/92
Batch: 3339 Report: F0520I3 T: 9/15/92
Dictated By: ABRAHAM T. SANTOSCOY , M.D.
cc: 1. DWAIN E. VENECIA , M.D.
2. SHELDON ROSELLE , M.D.
[report_end]
