RECORD #417530
162871505 | L | 92140947 | | 5043823 | 11/0/2005 12:00:00 AM | BILATERAL KNEE PAIN | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/0/2005 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 5/2/2005
ATTENDING: BORIA , DARELL M.D.
DIAGNOSIS: Multiple joint sepsis.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Mcumber is a 73-year-old
gentleman who in March of this year developed enterococcus sepsis
of both knees , his right shoulder and left wrist. He was taken
to the operating room in the beginning of August for irrigation
and debridement of the aforementioned joints. The cultures were
significant for enterococcus and he was started on IV antibiotics
and discharged to Motle Health Services . At Cial Memorial Hospital , he continued to
complain about bilateral knee swelling as well as shoulder and
wrist pain and was therefore brought back for a repeat wash out
and reassessment.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: BPH , pacemaker , atrial fibrillation.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Status post bilateral total knee
replacement approximately 10 years ago , status post left ankle
ORIF.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Lopressor 50 mg PO b.i.d.
2. Multivitamin.
3. Lisinopril 7.5 mg PO daily.
4. Colace 100 mg PO b.i.d.
5. Digoxin 0.25 mg PO daily.
6. Nexium 40 mg PO daily.
7. Unasyn.
8. Gentamicin IV.
9. Coumadin 7.5 mg PO q.p.m.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Stable vital signs.
Temperature 97.8. Left wrist tender to examination with
decreased strength of wrist extension , finger flexion and
intrinsics to 3 out of 5. Right shoulder and both knees with
only slightly decreased range of motion and little pain on
passive range of motion. Neurovascularly intact.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was taken to the operating room on
11/29/05 for arthroscopic irrigation and debridement of both knees
as well as the right shoulder. There was a small effusion in
both knees which was aspirated prior to the irrigation and sent
to the laboratory. These cultures show no growth to date with
negative gram stain. The right shoulder was ??_____?? without
effusion. Intraoperative exam: No purulent discharge was
encountered , however there was mild inflammatory response in both
knees and right shoulder. The left wrist was treated with
irrigation and debridement as well as a proximal ??_____??
carpectomy by Dr. Edmond Augustave from hand surgery.
Intraoperative cultures for fluid aspirate as well as bone tissue
from the proximal ??_____?? carpectomy demonstrated coag negative
staph. Postoperatively , the patient was seen by physical therapy
for mobilization and weightbearing as tolerated with free range
of motion of both knees and the right shoulder. He was placed in
an Orthomold splint for the left wrist. On request of the
patient's daughter , Medicine was consulted but had little
recommendations beyond small adjustments of his cardiovascular
medications.
Also , Infectious Disease was consulted and recommended a change
of antibiotics to ampicillin and gentamicin and vancomycin to
treat the coag negative staph in the left wrist aspirate as well
as to continue treatment of the previous enterococcus infection.
No cultures from the current admission have demonstrated
enterococcus. The patient also underwent a transthoracic echo ,
however , the report is pending at the time of discharge.
Finally , the patient was seen by Nutrition who recommended a
??_____?? protein diet with supplements t.i.d.
Lastly , the patient presents with chronically elevated PTT in a
range of 40 to 70. After discussion with hematology , an
inhibitor screen was sent , however , after the serum was
neutralized , PTT was found to be normal so likely the chronic PTT
elevation was secondary to a hep block in his PICC line.
The patient progressed well and was ambulating with minimal
support at the time of discharge. He has remained afebrile with
benign-appearing incisions. He will be transferred to Mount Coursven Community Healthcare for further mobilization.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Ampicillin 3000 mg IV q. 4 hours x6 weeks.
2. Digoxin 0.25 mg PO daily.
3. Colace 100 mg PO b.i.d.
4. Gentamicin sulfate 400 mg IV daily x6 weeks ( please check
gentamicin peak and trough levels ).
5. Lisinopril 10 mg PO daily.
6. Lopressor 50 mg PO t.i.d. Hold for systolic blood pressure
less than 110 and heart rate less than 55.
7. Senna tablets 2 tablets PO b.i.d.
8. Multivitamin therapeutic with minerals , 1 tab PO daily.
9. Vancomycin 1 gram IV q. 12 hours x6 weeks.
10. Coumadin 7.5 mg PO q.p.m. with a target INR of 2 to 3 for
atrial fibrillation chronically.
11. Esomeprazole 40 mg PO daily.
12. Oxycodone 5-10 mg PO q. 4 hours p.r.n. pain.
PLAN: The patient will be transferred to Potan Community Hospital
??_____??. He has a right antecubital PICC line in place which
will be flushed per protocol. He will require intravenous
antibiotics for six weeks' time and during this time will require
at least weekly lab draws with CBC with diff , BUN and creatinine.
He will be followed by Dr. Bees from Infectious Disease at
Fieldbash Perek Medical Center . He was followed by Dr. Odermott from Infectious
Disease during his hospitalization at Itorschild Brookrisionxas Hospital And Health Center Mr. Phillippe will require a hearing test while at
Ter Medical Center due to his longterm gentamicin treatment. He
will require rehab services for mobilization , weightbearing as
tolerated , with free range of motion and no restrictions for both
lower and the right upper extremity. He will remain in his
Orthoplast splint with b.i.d. dressing changes to the dorsal
wrist incision. Mr. Groat will follow up with Dr. Gaston Weisse
from Ba Medical Center Orthopedics on 10/7 at 9:00 and
with the Hand Service at Cet Ene Memorial Hospital on 11/17 at
9:15. He will also follow up with Dr. Digmann from Thma Hospital Gastroenterology for a colonoscopy on 9/29/05 at
9:00 a.m. , also at Randmar Health on the Cu Terbsouthville , Minnesota 75590
eScription document: 7-6671527 MCSFocus transcriptionists
Dictated By: YAKLIN , GIUSEPPE
Attending: NASCA , RALEIGH
Dictation ID 4447844
D: 8/5/05
T: 8/5/05
[report_end]
