RECORD #526132


441080544 | CCH | 92438504 | | 6970313 | 6/18/2003 12:00:00 AM | NECROTIZING FASCIITIS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 1/22/2003 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 7/8/2003
PRINCIPAL DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: NECROTIZING FASCIITIS.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 73-year-old female with a
history of insulin-dependent diabetes
mellitus and critical AS , who presented to the Emergency Department
from her primary care Er/ Neslath Community Hospital Of office presenting with a
right thigh mass present x 4 days. The patient was unable to
ambulate secondary to this abscess pain , patient with chills and
fevers to 102. Her glucose had become difficult to control since
the start of the abscess , and she presented to the Emergency
Department tachycardic and hypotensive.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Past medical history includes
insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , morbid
obesity , critical AS , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , and
anemia.
MEDICATIONS: Her home medications include Glyburide , Metformin ,
hydrochlorothiazide , Protonix , Lipitor , and Zestril.
ALLERGIES: Allergies include Penicillin.
PHYSICAL EXAM ON ADMISSION: In the Emergency Department here at
the Merso Ri Riska Hospital , her temperature was
101.5 , her heart rate was 128 , blood pressure 103/52 , and she was
breathing regularly , saturating 98% on room air. She was generally
a mildly ill appearing obese female. Cardiovascularly , she was
tachycardic and regular. She had a 2/6 systolic murmur louder on
the right. Her lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. Her
abdomen was soft and obese , nontender , with audible but low bowel
sounds. Rectal exam was trace guaiac-positive by report. Her
extremities showed a large right thigh abscess with a boil
immediately below the pannus , with positive erythema , tenderness
down to the knee and up to the groin. There was no labial or
perirectal involvement.
LABS ON ADMISSION: BUN of 73 , creatinine of 3.8 , and a glucose of
357. White blood cell count of 18.4. EKG on
admission showed sinus tachycardia , with some T wave inversion , and
chest x-ray showed some mild pulmonary edema. The UA showed some
trace blood and trace leukocyte esterase.
HOSPITAL COURSE: Patient was taken emergently to the operating
room for an incision and drainage of this
abscess , which was believed to be a necrotizing fasciitis.
Postoperatively , the patient remained intubated and was in the
Surgical Intensive Care Unit. She was started on NeoFed for
control of her blood pressure to get it to the 70s , and was
receiving metoprolol and esmolol for a heart rate that had gone up
to the 130s. She was on triple antibiotics for full coverage and
treatment of her infection. On postoperative day 1 , the patient
remained in the Intensive Care Unit. She was awake and appeared
comfortable on fentanyl for analgesia. She was evaluated by
Brookstibu Health Cardiology. She continued to need Levophed for
her blood pressure. Her cardiac enzymes and EKGs were being
continuously followed for evaluation of cardiac complications. She
continued to be on a ventilator and her diabetes was controlled
with an insulin drip. On postoperative day 2 , Plastic Surgery was
consulted and continued to follow the patient for future
necessitating closure of this right thigh wound. On postoperative
day 3 , patient remained in the Intensive Care Unit. Blood pressure
was improving , NG tube was removed , and a diet was started. By
postoperative day 4 , the patient was feeling well. She remained in
the Intensive Care Unit. She was tolerating Percocet for pain.
The wound appeared to have healthy tissue. She continued to
necessitate an insulin drip. The cultures on the wound showed
positive Enterococci and Corynebacter. She continued to be on
vancomycin , levofloxacin , and Flagyl for these microbes. On
postoperative day 4 , she was transferred to a regular nursing floor
in stable condition. On the regular nursing floor , the patient
continued to do well , tolerating all her diabetes meds by mouth.
Her vital signs were stable , with blood pressures 140/70s and a
heart rate ranging in the 70-75s. On postoperative day 8 , a VAC
sponge was placed on the wound , rehab screening was initiated , and
on postoperative day 9 the patient was transferred to a
rehabilitation facility. She was in stable condition. She was
working with Physical Therapy. She was tolerating a regular diet
and tolerating all of her medications , with continued stable vital
signs. Her wound showed healthy tissue and was covered with a VAC
sponge , that needs to be changed every three days. She continues
to be on triple antibiotics , and on the day of discharge she is day
9 of a 21-day course. Her vancomycin is dosed daily , depending on
her vancomycin level , that must be drawn also daily. Patient is to
follow up with Dr. Malady in one week and is to follow up with
Plastic Surgery in three weeks for evaluation of closure of the
wound. Patient is to follow up with her primary care physician and
her Princoness- Caken Valley Medical Center cardiologist as needed after discharge from
rehab.
Her discharge medications include vitamin C 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
glyburide 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. , heparin 5000 U subcu t.i.d. , a sliding
scale of regular insulin , Flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. day 9 of 21 ,
Percocet 1-2 tablets p.o. q.4-6h. p.r.n. pain , multivitamin
therapeutic with minerals one tablet p.o. q.d. , vancomycin 1 g IV
q.d. dosed daily only when the daily vancomycin lab levels are less
than 15 , zinc sulfate 220 mg p.o. q.d. , Maalox , levofloxacin 500 mg
p.o. q.d. , esomeprazole 20 mg p.o. q.d.
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: DIET: House diet , ADA , 2100 calories a
day. ACTIVITY: As tolerated , no
restrictions , elevate feet for any prolonged sitting periods.
FOLLOWUP: As previously noted , with Dr. Bardes , Plastic Surgery ,
and Sisterswe University Health Care followup.
Dictated By: NORRIS RIGGERT , PA
Attending: KARL HOAGUE , M.D. WU32  ER321/137999
Batch: 0928 Index No. LQFG0B14CN D: 10/25/03
T: 10/25/03
[report_end]
