RECORD #529379


191207305 | EG | 70241196 | | 0210178 | 0/15/2002 12:00:00 AM | CELLULITIS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 0/15/2002 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 0/18/2002
SERVICE: General Medical Service Au Alldown Memorial . 
PRINCIPAL PROBLEM: Vascular insufficiency.
OTHER DIAGNOSES: Diabetes mellitus , known vascular disease ,
incontinence , recurrent UTIs , hypertension.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is an 89-year-old woman with
insulin dependent diabetes , coronary
artery disease , hypertension , peripheral vascular disease , and
ejection fraction of 28% who had a left fem-peroneal bypass in the
past presented with on-going left toe pain admitted for left toe
vascular insufficiency and cellulitis refractory to treatment for
two months. The patient reported having her podiatrist clip her
nails about two months ago which is when her pain in her foot
started. She denies any fever , chills , cough , shortness of breath ,
nausea , or vomiting. At home she was able to ambulate , but had
significant pain localizing to her left foot and toe. She was
recently admitted here on August for the same
complaint treated with IV levofloxacin and clindamycin for five
days and then went home on ten days of dicloxacillin , then Keflex.
She comes back on the May with the same pain
and infection in her left foot. On admission she was afebrile with
mild tachycardia and stable blood pressure. Exam was notable for a
soft systolic ejection murmur at the base , non-palpable pulses in
her left lower extremity. Left foot was cool. There was swelling
over the dorsum of her left foot to the ankle. There was a
superficial ulcer along the medial aspect of the nail bed without
purulence. She had normal white blood cell count and negative
blood cultures taken here.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Status post CVA , status post carotid
endarterectomy , status post fem-peroneal
bypass in 1997 , diabetes , hypertension , inflammatory bowel disease ,
congestive heart failure with an EF of 28 to 30% , depression ,
recurrent UTIs , coronary artery disease , status post MI , non-Q wave
MI , cataracts , stress incontinence.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Include lactulose , Zocor , Metamucil ,
Paxil , Cozaar , Neurontin , Metformin ,
Lantus.
ALLERGIES: Allergies to sulfa , Mavik , and verapamil.
FAMILY HISTORY: Noncontributory.
SOCIAL HISTORY: She lives with her family.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: As per the history of the present illness.
ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: VITAL SIGNS: Temperature 98.3 ,
heart rate 100 , blood pressure
184/100 , breathing 20 and satting 97% on room air. GENERAL: No
acute distress , obese. HEENT: Clear. No adenopathy. Oropharynx
clear. NECK: Jugular venous distention less than eight
centimeters. CARDIOVASCULAR: Regular rate and rhythm. No
murmurs , rubs , or gallops. PULMONARY: Clear to auscultation
bilaterally. ABDOMEN: Soft , non-tender , non-distended. No
organomegaly. Obese. EXTREMITIES: Left foot swollen to the ankle
over the dorsum , erythema. Superficial ulceration along the
lateral first toenail bed without purulence. Left foot was cool.
Non-palpable pulses in lower extremity. NEUROLOGIC: She was
intact. Able to ambulate with some difficulty and pain.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted for recurrent vascular
insufficiency with superimposed cellulitis likely
due to her poor lower extremity perfusion from her peripheral
vascular disease. An MRI was obtained which was concerning for
early osteomyelitis and there was concern that her bypass graft in
her left leg was not patent. She had angiography of the left leg
vessels and proceeded to get stenting of the left common iliac and
external iliac vessels without complication on March .  Also
during her hospitalization she had elevated LFTs which were
attributed to a three gram dose of Unasyn that she received in the
Emergency Room. The Unasyn was changed to IV clindamycin and levo ,
and a right upper quadrant ultrasound showed a calcified
gallbladder wall and no obstruction , and her LFTs then began to
normalize. Her cardiac status remained stable throughout her
admission and she is to be treated with Plavix 75 mg for 30 days
after the stenting of her iliac vessels. A PICC line was placed on
the day of discharge for on-going IV antibiotics
PLAN: The plan is as follows: 1. Plavix times 30 days , 75
milligrams a day. 2. IV clindamycin and p.o. levofloxacin
for another ten days , and then switch to p.o. Flagyl and
levofloxacin for an additional four weeks. 3. She is to follow-up
with her PCP , Dr. Renato Hypolite , and Vascular Surgery Clinic as
planned. 4. Please continue checking fingerstick blood sugars
q.a.c. and h.s.
DISCHARGE CONDITION: Stable.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Include the following: aspirin , bacitracin ,
Dulcolax , clindamycin 600 mg IV q. eight
hours for another ten days , Colace enema or laxative choice per day
for constipation , heparin 5000 units subcu b.i.d. , regular insulin
sliding scale , lactulose 30 milliliters p.o. b.i.d. hold for loose
stool , Reglan ten milligrams p.o. q. six for nausea or vomiting ,
oxycodone five to ten milligrams p.o. q. four to six for
breakthrough pain , Fleets Phospho-Soda 45 liters p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n.
for constipation , Senna tablets two tabs p.o. b.i.d. , Neurontin 100
milligrams p.o. b.i.d. , Metformin 500 milligrams p.o. b.i.d. ,
OxyContin ten milligrams p.o. q. 12 hours , Cozaar 50 milligrams
p.o. q.d. hold for a systolic blood pressure less than 95 ,
levofloxacin 250 milligrams p.o. q.d. for the next ten days and
then an additional four weeks after that as described above , Plavix
75 milligrams p.o. q.d. times 30 days , and Adalat ( nifedipine
extended release ) 60 milligrams p.o. q.d. hold for systolic blood
pressure less than 95 , Lantus 14 units subcu q.a.m.
ADDITIONAL PLAN: The patient should have her LFT's rechecked in
the next week to ensure that they are normalizing.
Dictated By: HILTON BIRD , OE14
Attending: ROSENDO FARGNOLI , M.D. XZ56  WK192/175433
Batch: 75653 Index No. B8CF4A7APF D: 8/24/02
T: 8/24/02
CC: 1. CRISTOBAL S. HARWIN , M.D. ZD45
[report_end]
