RECORD #866755


890148013 | STMC | 33525097 | | 606384 | 0/28/2000 12:00:00 AM | CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/25/2000 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 9/12/2000
SERVICE: The patient received care on the Wayal Hospital . 
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: CHRONIC PULMONARY EMBOLI.
SIGNIFICANT PROBLEM LIST: 1. Sick sinus syndrome with pacemaker.
2. Chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease.
3. Restrictive airway disease.
4. Congestive heart failure.
5. Abdominal aortic aneurysm.
6. History of peripheral vascular
disease.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is an 82-year-old female
with a past medical history of chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease and restrictive lung disease ,
peripheral vascular disease status post right carotid
endarterectomy , status post bilateral femoral to popliteal bypass
surgery , sick sinus syndrome status post cardiac pacemaker
placement in 1993 , history of squamous cell carcinoma and abdominal
aortic aneurysm diagnosed two weeks prior to admission , who
presented to the Town University Emergency Department on
2/14 with a two day history of shortness of breath and
paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea and worsening fatigue times two weeks.
The patient was recently admitted and evaluated in Hoaprings where
she spends a significant part of the winter , and was diagnosed with
a viral syndrome and "asthma" flare. The patient was hospitalized
and underwent a Cardiolite stress test which was negative , as per
her Dy Memorial Hospital primary care doctor ,
Dr. Kuffa . The patient also had an echocardiogram done in
Bar Highway , Anri which demonstrated a normal ejection fraction , but evidence
of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy without obstruction. The patient
was evaluated with a CT scan in Dale , Indiana 70705 which demonstrated an
abdominal aortic aneurysm greater than 5.0 cm. The patient had had
prior surgery on her abdominal aorta , and the patient was to
follow-up with Dr. Vandawalker at the Stangiles Hospital on
6/7 .  The patient had also been found on the CT scan down in
Et to have a pelvic mass for which she had been evaluated by
ultrasound and Gynecology follow-up has been arranged.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ,
restrictive airway disease , congestive heart
failure. Recent echocardiogram less than two weeks prior to
admission demonstrated normal ejection fraction and changes
consistent with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy without obstruction.
Dyslipidemia. Squamous cell cancer in the past. Sick sinus
syndrome , status post pacemaker placement in 1993. Peripheral
vascular disease , status post bilateral femoral to popliteal
bypass. Status post right carotid endarterectomy. Abdominal
aortic aneurysm diagnosed two weeks prior to admission.
Depression. Seizure disorder.
ALLERGIES: Penicillin and ampicillin cause nausea.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the Short Stay Unit
for a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease flare
versus chronic pulmonary emboli. The patient had lower extremity
noninvasive studies which demonstrated a left popliteal vein
thrombosis. The patient's V/Q scan was initially set-up through
the Short Stay Unit. Her V/Q scan was subsequently performed and
read out as intermediate probability of the lower end of the
spectrum by the nuclear radiologist , with significant changes
consistent with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The patient
was started on initially unfractionated heparin and then
transitioned to Lovenox and Coumadin , and started on prednisone for
a presumed chronic obstructive pulmonary disease flare. While the
patient was in the hospital , her respiratory status was stable with
oxygen saturations in the high 90 percent range on a maximum of 2.0
liters nasal cannula. At discharge , the patient was sent home off
oxygen. The patient was evaluated by Dr. Kieffer for pacemaker
function and the battery was in need of replacement. The patient
was taken to the Procedure Room on 6/7 and underwent pacemaker
battery replacement by Dr. Bieker without complication. While in
the hospital , the patient had a routine CT scan at the request of
Dr. Legeyt , who will follow-up with the patient regarding surgery on
her abdominal aortic aneurysm shortly after discharge. The patient
was discharged in stable condition.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Pertinent findings on physical examination
on the day prior to discharge. Temperature
maximum 98.8 , temperature current 98.4 , pulse 56 , blood pressure
120/80 , respiratory rate of 20 , O2 saturation 95 percent on room
air. General , well-developed , well-nourished , in no apparent
distress. HEENT , pupils are equal , round , and reactive to light ,
extraocular movements are intact , the mucous membranes are moist ,
no pharyngeal injection , no conjunctiva injection , no icterus. The
neck is supple , no thyromegaly , no lymphadenopathy , no masses.
Cardiovascular , regular rate and rhythm , S1 and S2 , clear to
auscultation , no murmurs , no gallops , no rubs , jugular venous
pressure at 8.0 cm , no carotid bruits bilaterally. The lungs are
bilaterally clear to auscultation , no crackles , no rhonchi , no
wheezes. The abdomen is soft , nontender , nondistended , positive
bowel sounds , no hepatosplenomegaly , positive pulsatile abdominal
mass measuring approximately 5.0 cm. Bimanual examination ,
extremities are warm , trace left-sided pedal edema , no clubbing , no
cyanosis other than her left calf cord. Neurologic examination ,
alert and oriented times three. Motor 5/5 proximal and distal
muscle groups tested. Sensory and cranial nerve examinations were
within normal limits.
LABORATORY DATA: Laboratory studies on the day prior to discharge ,
sodium 143 , potassium 4.3 , chloride 105 ,
bicarbonate 30 , BUN 14 , creatinine 0.8 , glucose 141 , calcium 9.0 ,
magnesium 2.0. White blood cell count 6.5 , hematocrit 35.8 ,
platelets 255 , 000 , partial thromboplastin time 22.8. Repeat
echocardiogram during this hospitalization , ejection fraction 60
percent , 2+ tricuspid regurgitation , 2+ mitral regurgitation ,
systolic pulmonary artery pressure greater than 50.0 mm of mercury
above the right atrial pressure , restrictive physiology
demonstrated mild aortic insufficiency and left atrial enlargement.
OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES: On 6/7 , pacer battery replacement ,
no complications , Dr. Nollet operator.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Vitamin C 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. , atenolol 50
mg p.o. q.d. , Atrovent inhaler two puffs
inhaled q.i.d. , lisinopril 40 mg p.o. q.d. , Dilantin 60 mg q.a.m. ,
60 mg q. noon , 120 mg q.h.s. all p.o. , Zoloft 25 mg p.o. q.d. ,
Zocor 40 mg p.o. q.h.s. , Flovent 220 mcg inhaled b.i.d. , calcium
carbonate and Vitamin D one tablet p.o. b.i.d. , Pepcid 20 mg p.o.
q.h.s. , Lovenox 40 mg subcutaneous q.12h , Coumadin 2.5 mg p.o.
q.d. , clindamycin 300 mg p.o. q.i.d. times three days , Albuterol
inhaler two puffs inhaled q.i.d. p.r.n. wheezing or shortness of
breath.
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable.
DISPOSITION: Home.
ESTIMATED DISABILITY: Minimal.
Dictated By: RICKY BALANGATAN , M.D. IQ03
Attending: HAI D. ROLF A KLEBAN , M.D. YW3  QU218/5484
Batch: 30970 Index No. P9TL5L9A0L D: 3/12
T: 5/23
CC: 1. IRWIN G. DARWIN M CORBAN , M.D. PK5 NIEM AND HOSPITAL . 
[report_end]
