RECORD #904835


546608017 | HH | 85716261 | | 546508 | 0/3/1999 12:00:00 AM | STROKE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 4/3/1999 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 0/30/1999
CHIEF COMPLAINT: This patient presented with an acute stroke and
was brought in by her daughter.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Sixty-six year old obese African
American woman of previous CVA of
unclear etiology and unclear clinical sequelae. She was driving as
a passenger in a car around 11:00 o'clock in the morning and
experienced a sudden speech arrest which was witnessed by her
daughter-in-law. She has also difficulty moving her right arm and
she had some tearing of her left eye as well as a skewed look on
her face. By 11:40 a.m. , the ambulance had arrived and she was
admitted to the Koote Hospital emergency department
where the protocol for acute stroke was instituted. The patient
had a CTA done which showed questionable luminal narrowing of the
distal left middle cerebral artery. CT scan was normal and the
patient was given intravenous TPA at 1323 p.m. She was given a 9
mg bolus dose over two minutes and 81 mg given over the following
hour. She was transferred to the neuro. intensive care unit of
Ham Tertnough Memorial Hospital . 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY; Diet controlled diabetes , obesity ,
hypertension as per the Rinn Maield Pinessi Hospital internal
medicine associate records. She also has history of ulcerative
colitis and is on treatment. She is status post MI in 1988 and
there is question of an old stroke in the past. There is also
question of asthma.
MEDICATIONS: Currently is aspirin 325 mg and Asacol although she
wasn't sure of the dose.
SOCIAL HISTORY: Nonsmoker , married with several children. At
baseline , she is wheelchair dependent due to
chronic hip and back pain although she ambulates at home.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Revealed chronic mild shortness of breath.
FAMILY HISTORY: There was no significant other family history.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION; Blood pressure is 138/76 , heart rate was 80
and paced. She was an obese lady lying on
her back. HEAD AND NECK: Revealed no evidence of trauma. There
were no bruits in the neck. CHEST: Clear. There were bilateral
wheezes. ABDOMEN: Soft , non-tender. EXTREMITIES: Normal , obese
with no edema. NEURO: The patient is awake and alert , looking
around. She was mute however. She was able to follow one step
commands. She had a question of a right field compromise
difficulty crossing the midline. She had a right upper motor
neuron seventh weakness with decreased power on the right side of
the face. She had flaccid right arm. Her right leg had some power
with flexion at the knee but was generally weak. She had optimum
coordination and absent pinprick and proprioception on the right.
All of this was documented at 12:30 a.m. By 14;30 a.m. , after the
patient was given intravenous TPA , the patient's language had
returned completely to normal. She had normal speech including
comprehension and naming. Her ability to distinguish left from
right was intact. Her repetition was intact. SHe had full range of
movement of the eyes with full fields of confrontation. She had a
mild right arm drift on the right side but her strength was 4+/5
distally and proximally. There was normal power in the right lower
lobe and the plantars were normal. There was no increase in
reflexes. The patient was transferred to the intensive care unit
for the neurological service of Teaspell Diee Hospital . 
HOSPITAL COURSE: Blood pressure monitoring was instituted per
protocol , nasal oxygen was given and no antiplatelet
therapy was given for 24 hours. Head of bed was raised to 30
degrees. Head CT was repeated the following morning , the results
of which show that there is slight left basal ganglion internal
capsule , acute and subacute infarct in the left middle cerebral
artery distribution which was evolving from the previous study.
THere was no evidence of intracranial hemorrhage. The patient had
further investigations to look for a cause of this presumed embolic
stroke. She had an echocardiogram done which showed the aortic
root at 3.5 cm , the atrium at 3.2 which is slightly dilated. There
was normal ventricular size and overall preserved systolic
function , trace aortic insufficiency , 1+ tricuspid regurgitation ,
trace mitral regurgitation. Holter monitor was done which showed
persistent atrial flutter. The patient was coumadinized and some
discussion pertaining to cardioversion was entertained by the
electrophysiology service. However , this was not done as an
inpatient. The patient continued to do remarkably well after her
intravenous thrombolysis over the next couple of days. She had
persistent drift on the right arm; however , her speech remained
completely normal. SHe was reviewed by the chronic pain service on
several occasions for chronic back and leg pain. She reached
normal levels of Coumadin within several days and was discharged
without rehabilitation. She will be followed by the cardiac
service and a plan for complete cardioversion was instituted within
one month. The patient went home on Coumadin. She was finally
discharged on 0/21/99 . 
Dictated By: HAROLD ULLMANN , M.D. HQ91
Attending: IAN M. LAJEUNESSE , M.D. IX83  RO255/5843
Batch: 74024 Index No. B7NM1543EG D: 6/6/99
T: 6/6/99
[report_end]
