RECORD #921692


690517993 | CH | 01430211 | | 846045 | 5/20/2002 12:00:00 AM | HEMOPTYSIS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 1/14/2002 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 4/7/2002
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Briefly , Mr. Coxum is a 60-year-old man
admitted to the MICU on 10/25 in the
setting of massive hemoptysis. He has an 80 pack year history of
smoking. He was noted to have upper respiratory symptoms three
days prior to admission. One day prior to admission , he had some
pink sputum and shortness of breath. He was admitted to Cox Hospital
with possible COPD flare. At that time , he had massive hemoptysis ,
was intubated and transferred to BUOHC for further management.
Initially , he was seen by anesthesia and intubated with a double
lumen ETT for airway protection. He was taken to the O.R. the
following day and found to have an endobronchial lesion at the left
bifurcation of the upper and lower lobes. Samples were taken which
subsequently revealed clot. An endobronchial blocker was placed.
He had no further episodes of hemoptysis. On 2/29 , he had a
bronchoscopic Wang needle biopsy which was nondiagnostic but showed
cells suspicious for non small cell lung cell cancer versus
squamous metaplasia. He was easily extubated in the evening of
2/29 without event.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Hypertension , diabetes , alcohol , PAF , BPH ,
glaucoma , osteoarthritis , DVTs , CVA of total
right internal carotid and 80% of the left internal carotid artery ,
pilonidal cyst.
ALLERGIES: To Keflex.
MEDICATIONS AT HOME: Zestril 30 , NPH , aspirin.
MEDS ON TRANSFER: Also include Diltiazem , levo. and prednisone ,
Nexium , Nitropaste , trazodone , Ativan , Heparin ,
Zestril.
SOCIAL HISTORY: 80 pack years of tobacco. Alcohol in the past.
FAMILY HISTORY: Notable for coronary artery disease.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM: 1. Pulmonary: The patient had no
repeat episodes of hemoptysis on this
admission. He received a total body bone scan with no skeletal
metastasis found. CT of the chest on 1/28 revealed consolidation
improved since admission , no hilar or mediastinal lymphadenopathy
and low attenuation areas of enlargement within both adrenal
glands , unchanged from the admission CT. An abdominal CT showed
calcified gallstone , a left apical adrenal nodule needing further
imaging and a tiny , hypoattenuating liver lesion in the right liver
lobe. A CT scan of the head was negative for metastasis disease.
Because of the finding in the adrenal glands , an MRI of the abdomen
without contrast was also completed on the day prior to discharge.
Results of the study are pending. The case was discussed with Dr.
Doogan and Dr. Amoa and Dr. Hartt at length. It was decided
that if there was no evidence of metastatic disease , the patient
would possibly be offered left upper lobectomy for both diagnostic
and therapeutic purposes. If there were evidence of metastatic
disease on biopsy of a visible adrenal nodule , then potential
medical therapy would include chemotherapy and radiation. The
patient did well on the floor with O2 sats remaining in the upper
90s on room air. At one point , two days prior to discharge , he did
develop some mild inspiratory stridor. There was a question of
aspiration pneumonia; however , chest PA and lateral was negative.
2. Cardiovascular: The patient developed atrial fibrillation in
the setting of hemoptysis. He was loaded with IV amiodarone and
subsequently returned to normal sinus rhythm. He was on
maintenance dose of 200 mg p.o. q. d. and remained in normal sinus
rhythm. He also had hypertension and was started on Captopril and
Lopressor for better blood pressure control. Amiodarone will
likely be stopped at the time of discharge.
3. Renal: Creatinine has been stable throughout hospital course.
4. ID: The patient has been on levo. and Flagyl for presumed
aspiration pneumonia. He completed a two week course of these
medications. PPD was negative. BAL was negative for infectious
organisms.
5. GI: Was on Nexium for GI prophylaxis. Because the patient was
intubated for several days , he had significant swallowing
difficulties with possible aspiration. A video fluoroscopy study
revealed penetration and aspiration of all consistencies secondary
to decreased epiglottic deflection and moderate residue in the
piriform sinuses. Thus the patient received an NG tube and
received all feeds and pills through it. He is to remain NPO until
a repeat video fluoroscopy is performed.
6. Heme: The patient received one unit of packed red blood cells
during his stay and his hematocrit remained stable thereafter.
7. Endocrine: The patient required high doses of insulin , notably
80 in the a.m. and 85 in the p.m. with some breakthrough doses of
insulin as well.
8. Vascular: On the day of discharge , the patient was noted to
have bilateral ankle swelling. However in the setting of normal
creatinine , normal albumin of 3.9 and an echocardiogram with a
normal EF , this was not thought to be cardiovascular or renal in
origin. Furthermore , the patient had no tenderness to palpation
and no pain. LENIs were considered.
Thus the patient was discharged on 9/9/02 in the morning with
follow-up with Dr. Wickett and Dr. Alba .
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Artificial tears two drops o.u. t.i.d. ,
Atenolol 25 mg p.o. q. d. , folate 1 mg p.o.
q. d. , NPH 85 units in the morning and 80 units in the evening ,
Zestril 30 mg p.o. q. d , Nystatin swish and swallow , Thiamine 100
mg p.o. q. d. , trazodone 50 mg p.o. q. h.s. , Ambien 5 mg p.o. q.
h.s. , Nexium 20 mg p.o. q. d. , and multivitamin 12/5 ml p.o. q. d.
These will be given through the NG tube until he is stable with
regards to swallowing.
Dictated By: ALEJANDRO HEITSCHMIDT , M.D. WZ22
Attending: JOESPH RYBURN , M.D. LT12  WS748/395568
Batch: 57408 Index No. H2CDSWTZ50 D: 10/6/02
T: 10/6/02
CC: 1. KORTHAUER , CLARK FELTON BRET , M.D.
2. JC BURKETTE , M.D.
[report_end]
