RECORD #943200


910038846 | AMC | 74786632 | | 601987 | 11/26/1996 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 4/14/1996 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 6/22/1996
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE.
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE: Coronary artery bypass graft.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 51-year-old , morbidly
obese gentleman with multiple cardiac
risk factors transferred from Sherm Ilfami Medical Center after
presenting there with a ventricular fibrillation arrest in the
setting of chest pain , having ruled in for a myocardial infarction
with several subsequent VT/VF arrests. He has a history of insulin
dependent diabetes mellitus , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia ,
and former tobacco use. He had multiple exercise tolerance tests
in 1993 which were highly predictive of ischemia with significant
EKG changes and symptoms in the recovery phase. He was put on
maximal medications , and his most recent exercise tolerance test in
0/7 was not as positive as previously , but still suggestive of
ischemia. The patient relates increasing exertional chest pain for
several months , and increasing antianginal medications required.
He had witnessed syncope at work , 911 was called , and he was found
to be in VF and defibrillated into asystole , which then converted
to atrial fibrillation. He did not require intubation. He was
taken to Wtazealt Imedet Medical Hospital , admitted , and ruled in for a
myocardial infarction. Despite some short term memory loss related
to the incident , he does recall having chest pain just prior to
syncope. On the night before transfer , he was resting comfortably ,
sitting at the side of the bed for the first time when he went into
VF on the monitor and loss consciousness. He was immediately
cardioverted to sinus rhythm and begun on lidocaine. He had
another episode of VT two hours later which deteriorated into VF ,
again requiring cardioversion sinus bradycardia. Lidocaine was
increased to 3 mg per hour and arrangements were made to transfer
to the Aand An Hospital .  On arrival , he denied chest
pain.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Notable for insulin-dependent diabetes
mellitus , hypertension ,
hypercholesterolemia , orthopedic problems including severe shoulder
dislocations as a child with chronic shoulder osteoarthritis and a
recent meniscal tear of the knee.
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS: Subcu insulin 70/30 50 q.a.m. , NPH 50 mg
q.p.m. , Corgard , Procardia XL , Mevacor ,
enteric coated aspirin , and TNG p.r.n.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the cardiology
service initially. He was seen in
catheterization and found to have a complex LAD stenosis that was
60% in the mid and 70% in the distal LAD , 40% proximal left
circumflex , 70% complex stenosis in the OM2 , and an occluded RCA.
His LV gram showed an ejection fraction of 40%-50% with
anteroapical akinesis. He had no further chest pain or ectopy on
the TNG , lidocaine , and beta blockers , and he was successfully
diuresed. Given these findings , he was taken to the Operating Room
on 7/13/96 , at which time he had a coronary artery bypass graft
with a LIMA to the LAD , and a saphenous vein graft to the OM1 and
to the PDA. He came off bypass and required atrial pacing and
renal dopamine. However , postoperatively , on transfer to the
Intensive Care Unit , he did not require any further pacing.
Dopamine was weaned successfully to renal dose and then to off.
The patient extubated without difficulty by postoperative day one
and he was started on Lopressor and enteric coated aspirin. He had
a high insulin requirement which , over the course of his stay , ran
up to over 100 units total per day. He was transferred to the
floor by postoperative day one. Because of his obesity , he
required a big boy bed and he was seen by physical therapy to
improve his mobilization. He was successfully weaned off oxygen
and was ambulating by the time of discharge without any trouble.
Because of his history of VF/VT , he was planned for EP studies and
these were negative. The patient's stay , however , was prolonged by
evidence of cellulitis , particularly of his right saphenous vein
graft site. There was no breakdown or discharge , however , there
was erythema and warmth , which was treated with IV antibiotics
( ultimately Ancef IV ) and elevation. The patient's white count
remained stable. He was never febrile. The redness was ultimately
decreased by the time of discharge , and he was sent home on p.o.
Keflex.
DISPOSITION: To home with services.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Albuterol inhaler two puffs four times a
day , enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o.
q.day , NPH 65 units q.a.m. and 45 units q.p.m. subcu , Mevacor 20 mg
twice a day , Lopressor 25 mg three times a day , Niferex 150 b.i.d. ,
Percocet one to two tablets p.o. q.3-4h. p.r.n. , Colace 100 mg p.o.
t.i.d. while on Percocet , and Keflex 500 mg p.o. q.i.d.
FOLLOW-UP: The patient will have follow up with Dr. Rich N Mengsteab , primary medical doctor , for wound monitoring
and management of his sugars. He will have follow up with Dr.
Anton Litteral of cardiology and with Dr. Joaquin Weitman of cardiac
surgery.
Dictated By: JONAS JANKOFF , M.D. HU21
Attending: JEFFERSON H. ALVISO , M.D. TH3  KH421/9188
Batch: 00675 Index No. Q1UAAJ5J9O D: 9/13/96
T: 6/17/96
[report_end]
