RECORD #705164
039732622 | SCBH | 06180973 | | 8113494 | 0/21/2006 12:00:00 AM | ATRIAL FIBRILLATION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 1/9/2006 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 11/21/2006
ATTENDING: MOLIMA , ISSAC M.D.
ATTENDING SURGEON: Hassan Fail , M.D.
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSES: Chronic atrial fibrillation and atrial
flutter.
PRINCIPAL DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES: Chronic atrial fibrillation ,
atrial flutter , and ablation.
MEDICATION PROBLEMS: Include ,
1. Atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter left sided , status
post atrial fibrillation ablation attempt x1 , and atrial flutter
ablation x4 , transesophageal echo in 10/7 showed that atrial
appendage thrombus and trace mitral regurgitation.
2. Hyperprolactinemia.
3. Hypercholesterolemia.
4. Chest CT in 6/25 showed multiple tiny nodules in the right
upper lobe that needed to be followed up in 6-12 months.
BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 52-year-old
male with a history of recurrent atrial fibrillation and atrial
flutter , status post multiple cardioversion and failed ablations ,
admitted electively for repeat ablation of his atrial flutter.
He was initially diagnosed with atrial fibrillation about 12
years ago and had multiple failed cardioversion and medication
trials. He underwent several atrial fibrillation ablations ,
which ultimately all failed. Overtime his atrial fibrillation
has become atrial flutter possibly due to scarring of the atrial
wall and repeated ablations. When he was first diagnosed with
atrial fibrillation he was started on Coumadin , but that gave him
skin necrosis around his right scapular region. He had been all
the anticoagulants until 10/7 when during transesophageal echo
for planned ablation he was found to have a left atrial appendage
clot. He was first started on Lovenox , which caused large
ecchymosis , which prompted him to switch anticoagulation the
fondaparinux. He now lived persistently in atrial flutter. His
weight controlled with acebutolol. His physical activity has
somewhat decreased and he occasionally gets short of breath ,
epigastric discomfort , and palpitations. He was admitted on
9/14/06 for planned atrial flutter ablation by Dr. Bockemehl and
Dr. Caddle However , a preprocedure transesophageal echo
again demonstrated a left atrial appendage thrombus despite being
on fondaparinux , instead the patient underwent permanent atrial
fibrillation and atrial flutter surgery , which included a fourth
sternotomy and ablation of atrial fibrillation with COX III Maze
with cryoablation and cut and sew resection of the left and right
atrial appendages and closure of a patent foramen ovale.
PREADMISSION MEDICATIONS: Included Lipitor 40 mg orally daily ,
acebutolol 200 mg orally daily , bromocriptine 7.5 mg orally
daily , and fondaparinux 10 mg subcutaneously daily.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient has no tobacco use , no alcohol
abuse , and no illicit drug use.
ALLERGIES: The patient has allergies to quinidine , Coumadin to
which he has a skin necrosis allergy , flecainide which he has
questionable syncope , and amiodarone in which he developed
abnormal liver function test.
ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAM: The patient was alert and oriented x3.
He was in no acute distress. His lungs are clear bilaterally to
auscultation. His cardiovascular exam demonstrated regular rate
and rhythm with a normal S1 and S2. There were no murmurs , rubs ,
or gallops. His abdomen was obese. Bowel sounds are positive.
His abdomen was soft and nontender. His extremities were warm.
There was no edema. Skin: There was no rashes. Neuro exam was
nonfocal.
OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES: On 9/23/06 , the patient underwent
fourth sternotomy ablation of atrial fibrillation with COX III
Maze with cryoablation and cut and sew resection of the left and
right atrial appendages , closure of patent foramen ovale.
Surgery was performed by Dr. Rosendo Schwabauer
ADDITIONAL PROCEDURES: The patient underwent cardiac
catheterization on 6/15/06 , which showed that he was right heart
dominant that the left main coronary artery had no significant
lesions. The left anterior descending artery had no significant
lesion. The left circumflex artery proximally showed a tubular
25% lesion and the right coronary artery showed no significant
lesions with a mid tubular 40% lesion in the RTLV-VR.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEMS: Cardiovascular: Rhythm for
persistent atrial flutter , the patient was unable to go right
flutter ablation at present given his left atrial appendage clot
on transesophageal echo. Therefore , his rate was controlled with
his home medication acebutolol until surgery was performed on
9/23/06 , which included a fourth sternotomy ablation of atrial
fibrillation with COX III Maze with cryoablation , and cut and sew
resection of the left and right atrial appendages , and closure of
patent foramen ovale. There were no complications after the
surgery. The patient was discharged on 6/11/06.
PHYSICAL EXAM ON DISCHARGE: Temperature was 99.9 , heart rate 58 ,
blood pressure 104/96 , and he was sating 96% on 1.5 liters. He
was in sinus rhythm. Cardiovascular wise: He had regular , rate ,
and rhythm. His lungs were clear bilaterally. His extremities
were warm. There was 1+ ankle edema.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Included acebutolol 200 mg orally daily ,
bromocriptine 7.5 mg orally daily , aspirin 325 mg orally daily ,
fondaparinux 10 mg subcutaneously daily , calcium chloride slow
release 20 mEq orally twice a day , Lasix 40 mg orally twice a
day , levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. daily , lisinopril 10 mg orally
daily , Motrin 600 mg orally q.6 h. as needed for pain , and Zocor
40 mg orally at nighttime daily.
DISPOSITION: He was stable upon discharge and had followup with
Dr. Jeffers in Cardiovascular Clinic , advanced directive. The
patient is full code.
eScription document: 5-8867390 CSSten Tel
Dictated By: WUNDERLE , JAMEY
Attending: NUSE , AVERY
Dictation ID 6018558
D: 5/15/06
T: 0/12/06
[report_end]
