RECORD #76031
027656339 | JH | 02152549 | | 714020 | 0/6/1996 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 4/7/1996 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 6/21/1996
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: NON Q WAVE MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 53-year-old woman with mild
mental retardation , schizophrenia , and
borderline diabetes mellitus who was transferred from Himend Richdent Health Services for further cardiac evaluation after a non Q wave
myocardial infarction. She was in her usual state of health until
November 1995 when her family reports she began to have
intermittent abdominal pain and shortness of breath. It continued
to worsen until March 1996 when she presented to her primary
medical doctor and was diagnosed with a upper respiratory infection
and treated with antibiotics and Theo-Dur. At that time , the
family noticed she had an increasing shortness of breath , lethargy ,
and now significant weight gain. They reported about 35 lb per
week. On the date of admission to the Limen Hospital , she was
ambulating , but became extremely short of breath with severe
abdominal pain. They took her to the hospital and she was admitted
for what they thought was primary gastrointestinal process , but
they noted increasing GGTs without alkaline phosphatase changes in
her laboratory panel. She was placed on a rule out myocardial
infarction protocol and subsequently ruled in for a non Q wave
myocardial infarction with CKs of 235 , 6.3% , 246 , 7.7% MBs and 197 ,
7.6% MBs. Her EKG showed anterolateral myocardial
infarction/ischemic myocardial infarction. Her echo at Woodnaw Medical Center showed decreased LV function per report. Since admission
there , she had had repeated episodes of chest pain/abdominal
discomfort from 11/27/96 to 9/17/96 , and she was transferred to
the Middvail Fredhot Hospital for further evaluation.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Mild mental retardation , schizophrenia ,
borderline diabetes mellitus , and morbid
obesity.
FAMILY HISTORY: The patient has had a history of thyroid problems
in her family. She has a history of coronary
artery disease in her family. She lives with her sister. Her
daughters are in the area. Her cardiac risk factors include family
history , borderline hypertension. She does not smoke or drink.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient is an obese woman in no obvious
distress. The patient had dry mucous
membranes. Her neck and JVP were difficult to assess secondary to
body habitus. She had a left IJ catheter in place. She had
distant heart sounds without murmurs , rubs , or gallops. Lungs had
crackles 1/4 of the way up bilaterally. Abdomen was markedly obese
with a right upper quadrant tenderness to deep palpation. She had
edema from her feet up to her abdominal canis. She had 4+ edema to
her hips. There were 2+ pulses DP and PT. Femoral pulses were
difficult to assess. The patient was alert and oriented times
three and able to understand questions , but she had decreased
verbal skills.
LABORATORY DATA: SMA-20 and CBC were within normal range. Her
LDH was slightly elevated at 419 , alkaline
phosphatase elevated at 746. Total protein was decreased at 6.4 ,
albumin decreased at 3.6. Her digoxin level was 0.4. She was on
heparin with a PTT of 58.8. EKG showed a sinus rhythm of 89 , poor
R wave progression , old ischemic myocardial infarction , T wave
inversions in 1 , L , and V5-V6. Chest x-ray , by report from Noxer Kingsnew Tesbucks Health Of , showed mild cardiomegaly , pulmonary venous
hypertension , elevated right hemidiaphragm.
HOSPITAL COURSE: On transfer , the patient was evaluated with an
echocardiogram which showed global hypokinesis
with an ejection fraction of 20% and severely dilated heart.
Cardiac catheterization was contemplated to rule out ischemia as
her source of cardiomyopathy , but given that catheterization would
likely require intubation secondary to sedation given her psych
issues , the decision was made to pursue a more conservative course
with treatment of medication. She was aggressively treated for
congestive heart failure with digoxin , Ace inhibitor , and IV Lasix
and she continued to get IV Lasix b.i.d. 40 mg. She remained
stable while in the hospital and , after several days of diuresis ,
her edema slowly improved. Her breathing improved and she began to
ambulate. She lost approximately 8 kg while in hospital.
Her second issue was gastrointestinal. She continued to have , on
admission , an elevated LDH and alkaline phosphatase in the absence
of significant transaminases , it was not consistent with passive
congestion alone. We continued to follow them and they eventually
drifted down. The source of her elevations were never clear. We
checked the ammonia level which was normal and a sedimentation rate
which was normal.
Her third issue was Infectious Disease. Her urine , by report at
Ymont Taplaeast Hospital , had greater than 10-15 E.coli. She was not
treated with antibiotics. We repeated the urinalysis here and
began ampicillin on p.o. for a urinary tract infection , which she
continued for a full 10 day course. They felt that her urinary
tract infection was secondary to limited ambulation and her body
habitus.
The fourth issue was fluids , electrolytes , and nutrition. She had
total body edema and anasarca with slightly decreased protein and
albumin , but most likely secondary to severe congestive heart
failure. Her mucous membranes were dry , but felt this was
secondary to her breathing and possible intervascular depletion.
All of these issues cleared as she was diuresed.
The fifth issue was psych. We continued her medications and
contacted her family for support while she was in the hospital.
The patient did well and once she was able to walk around with
physical therapy , she was discharged on Lasix , digoxin , and with
VNA.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Elavil 50 mg p.o. q.h.s. , aspirin ECASA
325 mg p.o. q.day , Cogentin 1 mg p.o.
b.i.d. , digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.day , Lasix 60 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
Haldol 10 mg p.o. q.day , Ativan 1 mg p.o. b.i.d. , and lisinopril 20
mg p.o. b.i.d.
DISCHARGE CONDITION: She is being discharged in stable condition
with VNA follow up.
Dictated By: NATHANIEL P. DOBBE , M.D. WN20
Attending: TY P. SCHOENING , M.D. LZ10
WA011/0342
Batch: 10943 Index No. S2IOJW3DYS D: 7/25/96
T: 4/20/96
CC: 1. SUMSION , ALONZO THERON H. LZ10
2. GORDEY Ralla , Arizona 99514
[report_end]
