RECORD #270243


313990642 | HHS | 03264163 | | 610042 | 10/26/1991 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/5/1991 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 10/26/1991
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: LYMPHOMA.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 43-year-old with
an FUO recently admitted for further
work-up of fever. Approximately 12 weeks ago , the patient noted
the onset of fevers , intermittent to 102 or 103 , nonproductive
cough , arthralgias , myalgias , sweats and chills. There was some
diffuse abdominal pain. The patient has had recurrent fevers and
was admitted to Un Dell Nimay Memorial Hospital on 10/24/91 for a
work-up. This together with SH work-up has been fairly
extensive. He was discharged from the hospital two weeks ago and
five days ago after afebrile days , he began having fevers again. He
was admitted at this time for further work-up. He has had three
episodes of nausea and vomiting during the febrile episodes in the
last week. He has been passing gas and has been constipated. He
also noted a productive cough. HIV risk factors were negative.
Work-up has included chest CT which revealed enlarged diaphragmatic
lymph nodes , coronary artery calcium deposits and two small liver
cysts. Pelvic CT revealed retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy with a
second cecum. Chest x-ray was normal. Testicular ultrasound
revealed no masses. Abdominal ultrasound was normal with ectatic
aorta. Upper GI series revealed nodularity to the mucosa within
the gastric antrum , question focal gastritis. Endoscopy with
biopsy revealed gastritis , no evidence of malignancy. Serology
revealed hepatitis A IgM antibody negative , hepatitis A IgG
antibody positive , hepatitis surface antigen negative , rubella
immune , RPR negative , Toxo negative , CMV negative , HSV positive
( old infection ). Lyme titer was 11.7 ( normal is 0-9 ). PPD was
negative. SPEP normal. AFP , beta hCG , CEA negative. Malaria
screens were negative. B-12 and folate were normal. HIV was
negative. Multiple blood and urine cultures all negative.
ALLERGIES: PENICILLIN. MEDICATIONS: On admission included
Tylenol and Percocet.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission revealed a temperature of
103.4. HEENT exam was within normal limits.
Lungs were clear. Neck was supple with no jugular venous
distention , there was some shotty lymphadenopathy. Cardiac exam
revealed a regular rate and rhythm without murmurs , rubs or
gallops. Abdomen revealed positive bowel sounds , some mild
tenderness , question enlarged liver edge. There was positive
inguinal lymphadenopathy. Extremities revealed no clubbing ,
cyanosis or edema , positive lichen planus. Neurological exam was
nonfocal. Rectal exam was deferred.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was seen by both Infectious
Disease Service and Hematology Oncology Service.
The patient had an ANA which was negative. Rheumatoid factor was
negative. Lyme titer was 4.5. Hepatitis C was negative. CT scan
of the abdomen and pelvis done on 1/19 showed essentially no change
with multiple retroperitoneal lymph nodes , possible increased size
of the left external inguinal lymph node. The ultrasound of the
abdomen was negative for gallstones or biliary duct dilatation but
showed an abdominal aortic aneurysm of 2.5 cm. The patient had a
bone marrow biopsy which showed large atypical cells infiltrating
with fibrosis , a picture consistent with Hodgkin's disease
involving the bone marrow. The patient had defervesced and was
scheduled for discharge on the day which the bone marrow biopsy
results were received. He was informed of the diagnosis and is to
follow-up with Dr. Dallmann on an outpatient basis.
IY774/0899
KEVEN ISMAEL DENZINE , M.D. XQ3 D: 3/26/91
Batch: 3748 Report: E1932Q31 T: 5/9/91
Dictated By: MALIK M. ATTKISSON , M.D.
[report_end]
